          CSC 603/803 Generative AI: Fundamentals and Applications
                                Spring 2026

              Bulletin Description:
                            This course provides an in-depth introduction to Generative AI,
                            covering its fundamental concepts, models, and real-world
                            applications. Students will explore key techniques for generating text,
                            images, and multimodal content using state-of-the-art models such as
                            transformers, GANs, and diffusion models. The course balances theory
                            with hands-on practice, including prompt engineering, API usage, and
                            AI-powered application development. Through projects, students will
                            gain experience building AI-driven applications such as chatbots,
                            media generation tools, and productivity applications.

              Prerequisite
              for CSC 603: CSC 413 with a grade of C or better; GPA of 3.0 or better; or permission
                           of the instructor. Python programming skills, AI/ML basic knowledge
              for CSC 803: Graduate level standing; or permission of the instructor. Python
                           programming skills, AI/ML basic knowledge

              Texts:           None

              Instructor:      Prof. Xuhui (Tracy) Chen (tracychen@sfsu.edu)
                               TA: Mr. Nipun Taneja (ntaneja@sfsu.edu)

              Office:          Thornton Hall 910

               Office hours: W 10-12pm (TH 910), or by appointment

              Canvas:          Check CSC 603/803 website at https://canvas.sfsu.edu

              Grading:         Attendance (10%), In-class exercise (20%), Homework (30%),
                               Capstone project (40%)1
               Grade Scale:
                                 FINAL GRADE                     PERCENTAGE
                                 A                               ≥ 90%
                                 B+                              ≥ 86.5 and < 90%
                                 B                               ≥ 80.0 and < 86.5%
                                 C+                              ≥ 76.5 and < 80%
                                 C                               ≥ 70.0 and <76.5%
                                 D                               ≥ 60.0 and <70%
                                 F                               < 60.0%


1
    603 and 803 will have different expectations in some of the categories as outlined later in the syllabus.
          CSC 603/803 Topics (Tentative)
1. Introduction to Generative AI
       a. Overview: Definition and key characteristics of Generative AI. (w1)
       b. Prompt Engineering: understand how GenAI model work and know how to interreact
           with them effectively (W2)
       c. AI Agent (W3&4)
       d. How a model is trained (W5&6)
       e. Post-training and forgetting (W7)
       f. Inside Large Language Model (LLM) and its evolutions. (W8&11, no class on W9&10)
       g. How to evaluate the performance of an LLM (W12)
       h. Ethics and security issues (W12)
       i. Image, audio, and video Generative AI Models (W13&14)
2. GenAI in Software Development: AI-driven tools for developers. (W15)
3. Team-based Capstone Project (Building GenAI-powered applications with open-source
   models, APIs, frameworks, etc.): Final presentation and Q&A. (W16)




          Assignments/ Student Requirements
Grades will be determined with the following approximate weights.
Attendance (10%): 2 attendance quiz per class, 10 times in total.
In-class exercise (20%): In-class tutorials and exercises.
Homework (30%) (Likely to change):
           HW1-The power of GenAI
           HW2- RAG-based Agentic System
           HW3- AI Agent (prompt engineering)
           HW4- Fine-tuning
               o CSC603: quiz questions on LLM fine-tuning
               o CSC803: Fine tune a LLM (hands-on coding)
           HW5-Transformers
Capstone project (100points) (40%): (3 students/team, with 1 team leader)
(CSC803: must have innovations in the design instead of simply implementation.)
       • Project proposal (20 points)
       • Checkpoint progress report (20 points)
       • Final presentation & demo (60 points (CSC603), or 40 points (CSC803))
               o    Presentation grading: Instructor (50%) + peer evaluation (50%)
       • Final report (20 points) (CSC803)
                  General Information and Class Policies

 Student Learning Outcomes
 When a student completes this course, they will be able to…
 #1 Understand the fundamentals of Generative AI, including core concepts, major
 model types (text, image, audio, video), and real-world applications and limitations.
 #2 Apply prompt engineering techniques to interact effectively with generative
 systems and to define roles, tasks, and constraints in the design of GenAI-driven
 applications.
 #3 Develop Generative AI applications collaboratively through a team-based capstone
 project using appropriate APIs, frameworks, and tools.
 #4 Understand the principles of fine-tuning and customization of pre-trained
 Generative AI models for specific tasks.


            B.S. in CS Program Learning Outcomes                      Alignment with
                                                                      Student Learning
                                                                      Outcomes (use SLO
                                                                      # from table above)

PLO #1   Students will be able to design, develop,                2,3
         document, and test software using current
         techniques.

PLO #2   Students will understand the fundamentals of             N/A
         computer architecture and computing theory.

PLO #3   Students will be able to solve problems working          3
         in group settings.

PLO #4   Students will demonstrate the ability to give            3
         presentations and write technical reports.

PLO #5   Students will demonstrate an understanding of            N/A
         the importance of social and ethical issues
         related to the profession.
    Paired Course – Graduate Level Learning Outcomes
    Graduate-Level Learning Outcomes – When a student completes the graduate version
    of this course they will be able to…
    GSLO #1 Understand the fundamentals of Generative AI, including core concepts,
    major model types (text, image, audio, video), and real-world applications and
    limitations.
    GSLO #2 Apply prompt engineering techniques to interact effectively with generative
    systems and to define roles, tasks, and constraints in the design of GenAI-driven
    applications.
    GSLO #3 Develop Generative AI applications collaboratively through a team-based
    capstone project using appropriate APIs, frameworks, and tools.
    GSLO #4 Apply fine-tuning and customization techniques to adapt pre-trained
    Generative AI models for specific tasks.


                              M.S. in CS                            Alignment with
                 Graduate Program Learning Outcomes                  Grad Student
                                                                  Learning Outcomes
                                                                   (use GSLO # from
                                                                     table above)

GPLO      Students will demonstrate a breadth of knowledge in    GSLO #1
#1        Computer Science, as exemplified in the areas of
          systems, theory, and software development.
GPLO      Students will demonstrate the ability to conduct a     GSLO #3
#2        research or applied Computer Science project,
          requiring writing and presentation skills which
          exemplify scholarly style in Computer Science.




              M.S. in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence      Alignment with
                 Graduate Program Learning Outcomes                  Grad Student
                                                                  Learning Outcomes
                                                                   (use GSLO # from
                                                                     table above)

GPLO #1 Design and develop software systems to tackle          GSLO #2,3
        problems throughout the life cycle of data science and
        Artificial Intelligence. Major components in this life
        cycle include: data collection/acquisition, data
        storage/management, data preprocessing, data
        modeling and machine learning, and visualization.
              M.S. in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence         Alignment with
                 Graduate Program Learning Outcomes                     Grad Student
                                                                     Learning Outcomes
                                                                      (use GSLO # from
                                                                        table above)

GPLO #2 Obtain an in-depth understanding of a host of              GSLO #1
        machine learning/data mining algorithms; apply,
        implement, and evaluate such algorithms to extract
        knowledge from both structured and unstructured
        data.
GPLO #3 Utilize distributed and parallel computing platforms       GSLO #4
        that are capable of managing and processing big data
        using computing facilities on premise or in the cloud.
GPLO #4 Analyze potentially unethical practices in data science N/A
        and AI and adopt best practices to become a socially
        and ethically responsible professional.
GPLO #5 Communicate the data systems effectively with              N/A
        multidisciplinary audiences using verbal, written, and
        visual forms.


    Class accounts

    1)      If you are a new student, you should have an SFSU personal account on the
            SFSUservers. All students enrolled in this course will be given access to the
            CSC 603/803 Canvas site. I will direct all email messages and information
            relating to CSC 603/803 to your SFSU account.

    2)      You should check the 603/803 Canvas site every day or two. I post
            information related to the class periodically, including changes in current
            assignments, deadlines etc., and you areresponsible for keeping up-to-date
            by checking Canvas regularly. All email to meshould be directed to
            tracychen@sfsu.edu. Use the CSC 603/803 General forum on Canvasfor
            questions and discussions.

    3)      You should be the only person who has access to your account. Do not
            give outyour password. Do not let a friend use your account, or use a
            friend's account. Either action may result in temporary suspension of
            your account privileges.


    Attendance

    4)      You are responsible for all information given out in class. If you are
            unable to attend a regular class period, make sure you find out from a
      classmate about the lecture and assignments. Attendance will be taken
      through the semester. The attendance will worth 10% of your grade.

5)    If you are unable to attend a class period when a test is scheduled, you
      must contact the instructor before the test. If you are unable to take a test
      for medical reasons, you must have proof from a doctor, the health center
      etc. Otherwise, youwill get a zero on that test.

Late projects

6)    All projects are due at the announced deadlines. For some projects, you
      may turnin late projects within 48 hours of the deadline for 75% of the
      credit, or within 7 days of the deadline for 50% of the credit. There will be
      no negotiations (except for serious and compelling reasons, and they better
      be serious and compelling reasons. Email me when things happen.).

7)    “My computer was down'' is not considered to be a serious and compelling
      reasonfor missing the deadline. You will be given sufficient time to work
      on each assignment. Please start early! There is no excuse for waiting till
      the last minute.



Cheating

8)    This is taken very seriously. Don’t do it. Please consult the departmental
      policy onplagiarism/cheating: https://cs.sfsu.edu/grads/student-policies .
      Our 603/803 Canvas site also has policies related to academic honesty.

      See also: https://conduct.sfsu.edu/plagiarism

9)    All in-class exercise/homework, unless otherwise specified, are individual
      projects. This means that you're expected to work on them on your own,
      and not in collaboration with otherstudents. You may do preliminary
      planning with other students in the early stagesof the project, or help a
      friend debug her/his project. However, if the code in your projects is found
      to be very similar, this is considered cheating, even if you worked together
      to produce the code.

10)   Submitting someone else's work as your own is considered cheating.
      Lettingsomeone else submit your work as her/his own is also
      considered cheating, and will be treated equally.

11)   If you wrote your code on your own, you must be able to explain its details.
      If you are unable to explain the details of code that you turned in, I consider
      this astrong indication that you did not write the code on your own; in that
        case, I have the option of giving you a zero on that project, and reporting
        the incident to the department chair.

12)     Depending on the seriousness of the offense, students caught cheating
        could beassigned an "F" in the course, or be expelled from school.


                                    Some Resources
Learning Assistance Center (LAC)

Computer Science tutors are available at the
LAC.Website: https://lac.sfsu.edu
Email: lac@sfsu.edu
Phone: 415 338 1993

Title IX Notice of Non-discrimination

San Francisco State University does not discriminate on the basis of gender, which
includes sex and gender identity or expression, or sexual orientation in its
education programs or activities. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972,
and certain other federal and state laws, prohibit discrimination on the basis of
gender or sexual orientationin employment, as well as in all education programs
and activities operated by the University (both on and off campus). The protection
against discrimination on the basis of gender or sexual orientation includes sexual
harassment, sexual misconduct, and gender based dating and domestic violence and
stalking. You can find more information on their website: https://titleix.sfsu.edu/

Related resources:
The SAFE Place - (415) 338-2208; http://www.sfsu.edu/~safe_plc/
Counseling and Psychological Services Center - (415) 338-2208;
http://psyservs.sfsu.edu/

Disability Programs and Resource Center (DPRC)

DPRC staff work with students and employees with disabilities to ensure all
aspects oflife on campus including academics, events, and employment are
accessible.
If you have a disability and would like to make sure you have the best experience in
thiscourse, contact the DPRC.

Website: https://access.sfsu.edu/

Email: dprc@sfsu.edu
Phone: 415 338 2472
Video phone: 415 338 7210
